Q1. What is Console I/O in Python? What is the difference between input and output?
Ans: Console I/O means taking input from the user and displaying output on the screen. Input receives data, while output displays data.

Q2. What does the print() function do? Write its full syntax including sep and end parameters.
Ans: print() displays output on the screen.
Syntax:
print(objects, sep=' ', end='\n')

Q3. What is the default value of sep in print()? What will print("Hello", "World") output?
Ans: Default value of sep is space.
Output: Hello World

Q4. What does the end parameter in print() do? What is its default value?
Ans: end decides what comes after the output. Default value is newline \n.

Q5. What is the difference between print(name, height, weight) and print(name, height, weight, sep="-")?
Ans: First print uses space between values, while second print uses hyphen - between values.

Q6. What does the input() function do? What data type does it always return?
Ans: input() takes input from the user. It always returns string type.

Q7. A user enters 25 using input(). If you directly use it in a calculation, what problem will occur and how do you fix it?
Ans: It will be treated as a string and may cause an error in calculations. Use int() to convert it into integer.

Q8. What is the difference between print(10) and print("10")? Will the output look the same?
Ans: 10 is an integer while "10" is a string. Output looks the same but data types are different.

Q9. What does the type() function do? Give examples of what it returns for int, float, str, and bool.
Ans: type() returns the data type of a value.
Examples:
type(10)type(10.5)type("Hello")type(True)

Q10. What does the id() function return? Will two variables with the same value always have the same id?
Ans: id() returns the memory address of an object. No, two variables may not always have the same id.
Q11. What is the difference between input() with a prompt string and input() without one?
Ans: Prompt string displays a message to the user, while input without prompt shows no message.

Q12. How would you take name, age, and height as input from a user and print them all in one line with a hyphen separator?
Ans:
name = input("Enter name: ")age = input("Enter age: ")height = input("Enter height: ")print(name, age, height, sep="-")

Q13. What will be the output of the following and why?
val = input("Enter a number: ")print(type(val))
Ans: Output will be <class 'str'> because input() always returns a string.

Q14. What is the difference between print(name) and print("name")? When does each one get used?
Ans: print(name) prints the value stored in variable name, while print("name") prints the word name itself.

Q15. How is print() different from input()? Which one is used for output and which one is used for receiving data from the user?
Ans: print() is used for output, while input() is used for receiving data from the user.